1 Online / Offline content
1. The online content of Spoken Tutorials can be
accessed from :
http://spoken-tutorial.org/tutorial-search/
2. You can also download the Spoken Tutorials
for offline learning from :
http://spoken-tutorial.org/cdcontent/
3. From this link download the FOSS categories
in the language you wish to learn.
4. The Spoken Tutorial content will be downloaded as a zip file on your machine.
5. Extract the contents of the zip file & access
them.
2 The procedure to practise
1. You have been given a set of spoken tutorials
and files.
2. You will typically do one tutorial at a time.
3. You may listen to a spoken tutorial and reproduce all the commands shown in the video.
4. If you find it difficult to do the above, you may
consider listening to the whole tutorial once
and then practise during the second hearing.
3 Java
1. Click on "Select FOSS" or "All FOSS
Categories" drop-down and choose "Java".
2. Click on "Select Language" or "All
Languages" drop-down and choose the language (English, Hindi, Marathi ...) in which
you wish to learn.
3. Click on "Submit" button.
4. You will see a list of tutorials based on your
selection.
5. Start with the first tutorial in the displayed
list.
4 First tutorial: Getting started
with Java Installation
1. Locate the topic "Getting started with
Java Installation" and click on it.
2. To view the tutorial, click on the Play icon
which is located in the player.
3. The Pre-requisite will be visible below the
player (only for Online contents).
4. Outline, Assignments, Code Files and
Slides are available below the player.
5. Adjust the size of the browser in such a way
that you are able to practice in parallel.
6. At 2:56 mins, pause the video.
4.1 Open Terminal on Linux OS
(a) The video says that you need to use the
"Terminal" and "gedit text editor"
in Linux OS.
(b) The tutorials are explained on the Linux
OS.
(c) It will be easy for Linux users to follow
as instructed in the tutorial.
4.2 Open Command Prompt on
Windows OS
(a) On Windows, one has to use "Command
prompt" and "Notepad++ text editor"
instead of "Terminal" and "gedit text
editor".
(b) To open the ”Command Prompt” on
Windows, press the "Windows" key and
"R" key simultaneously on your keyboard.
It will open the "Run" prompt.
(c) At the prompt, type "cmd" and click on
"Ok".
(d) This will open the "Command" prompt.
(e) Notepad++ can be opened from
Start >> Applications >> Notepad++.
7. Play-pause-practise the whole tutorial.
8. Once the tutorial is complete, choose the next
tutorial from the playlist which is located on
the right side or below the player
9. Follow all the above instructions, till you complete the first 2 tutorials.
10. Third tutorial, Installing Eclipse will
teach how to install Eclipse on Linux.
11. For Eclipse - Windows Installation procedure, refer the Java - Installation
Sheet.
5 Fourth tutorial : Getting
started Eclipse
1. From here onwards, the remaining tutorials are
explained using the Eclipse IDE.
2. The commands shown, will work on both
Linux OS and Windows OS.
3. Follow all the instructions given in the individual tutorials and reproduce all the commands
as shown.
5.1 Instructions to practise
(a) Create a folder on the "Desktop" with
your "Name-RollNo-Component". (Eg.
"prathamesh-04-java").
(b) Give a unique name to the files you save,
so as to recognize it next time. (Eg.
"Practice-1-java").
(c) Remember to save all your work in your
folder.
(d) This will ensure that your files don’t get
over-written by someone else.
(e) Save your work from time to time, instead
of saving it at the end of the task.
5.2 Common instructions for
Assignments
(a) Attempt the Assignments as instructed
in the tutorial.
(b) Save your work in your folder.
5.3 Common instructions to use
Code files
(a) Click on the link "Code files" located
below the player and save it in your folder.
(b) Extract the downloaded zip file.
(c) You will see all the code/source files used
in the particular tutorial.
(d) Use these files as per the instructions
given in the particular tutorial.
4. Play-pause-practise the whole tutorial.
5. Once the tutorial is complete, choose the next
tutorial from the playlist which is located on
the right side or below the player.
6. Follow all the above instructions, till you complete all the tutorials in the series.